Hello. You are watching The One Show.
It's live on BBC One and iPlayer.
With Alex Jones and JB Gill.
It is Wednesday, so Matt is here for Watchdog.
If you are one of the many people watching who has a pension,
you should listen.
Yes, I will tell you about the pension company
that locked some people out of their savings.
Also, we got lots of emails on Easter Monday about
a P&O cruise that was cancelled. They told people only 24
hours before the trip.
We will tell you how to get your money back if you
lost money.
Thanks, Matt. That is coming soon.
Also tonight, Max Beesley and new actor
Edison Alcaide will join us. They are in a new drama that makes you think.
It is called Suspect: The Shooting of Jean Charles de Menezes.
It is set 20 years ago, after the 7/7 bombs.
It is about the real things that led to a young man
who did nothing wrong being shot dead on the London Underground
because they thought he was a bad guy.
Max and Edison will tell us what it was like to bring
such a strong story to TV.
Later in the show, Oscar-nominated actor
Dame Imelda Staunton and her daughter Bessie Carter will join us.
You know Bessie from Bridgerton. They will act on stage
for the first time playing a mother and daughter.
Also, we go to the lovely Scottish Borders where artist
Adebanji Alade meets famous kids' TV host
Timmy Mallett to learn how his brother who passed away
made him want to paint.
Martin was not held back by his problems with talking and learning.
He was not held back by Down's syndrome. He would say,
"You and me, I'm happy."
That means enjoy right now.
It's a very nice film. You will want to see that!
But first, Matt is here for Watchdog with the story about pensions.
Yes, it is supposed to be your money for when you stop working. Like finding gold
at the end of a rainbow after working hard.
So finding out you cannot get it?
Well, it is not just annoying. It can stop your plans.
Think about having money in your account,
but you cannot get it, and it is not your fault.
Well, that is what some people who use one of the biggest
pension companies have felt
over the last few months.
Aegon says it has about 4 million customers in the UK.
One of them is Beyata. She works for herself
making cakes in Brighton.
I started a pension 20 years ago. I did not pay much attention to it.
Now I am turning 57 and I want to take my money out.
Beyata wanted to use the money to buy a house. She tried to log
into her Aegon account to see how much she had saved.
But she could not get in.
I want to know how much money I have.
You want to see how to take it out, and the tax you pay.
So when you go in, what do you find?
Well, nothing right now.
The website does not work.
Beyata was confused. She called Aegon customer service.
They told her the website was not working.
Instead, they sent her an online form. They promised she would get
an answer in five work days.
But she heard nothing back.
There was no phone call. There was no letter.
There was nothing.
Instead, it took Aegon 18 days to send Beyata a letter.
It said she had over £22,000 in her pension savings.
It told her how to take it out.
But she tried many times and still could not
get her money.
How are you talking with Aegon right now?
There is no talking, only the letter we got.
I'm waiting.
What does this mean for you, Beyata, and your family?
It affects me a lot because you find
a house, but I cannot buy it. So I'm waiting.
So it is very, very upsetting.
Beyata's problem is not the only one.
There are lots of complaints online from unhappy customers.
Since the year started, 58% of Aegon reviews on Trustpilot
have only one star.
The customers we heard from were not told a time
when they can get their money.
And we also learned that it is affecting
people who do not even have an account with them.
Eight months ago, Gary, who works for himself, decided
to leave Aegon. He had been with them since 2010.
But he found out that three payments of £778 had been
taken by Aegon after he closed his account.
So Gary complained to the company.
Then they said, "We should not have taken it."
It might take about 28 days to fix.
But 28 days later, the £2300 was still not back.
When you told them what was happening, what did they say?
When I called, I asked if it could be a week or maybe six months?
"Sorry, there is no time frame."
But even though he called Aegon often, there was still no
sign of Gary's money.
Just calling their customer service again and again.
Very annoying.
And I just feel like you are hitting your head on a wall.
Two years ago, new rules started. They are called consumer
duty. These rules say that companies checked by the FCA must show they give
good results for customers.
If they do not, they can get fined.
James Daly works for Fairer Finance, a group that studies money matters.
It does not sound like Aegon has done enough yet.
Customers seem very annoyed.
Aegon made promises that they did not keep.
If they seemed to be delaying and not doing what was best
for their customers, then the fines
would be even bigger for them.
To say "we will fix this in a few days" and then
keep letting customers down just makes it worse.
We asked Aegon to comment.
It said it was very sorry for any upset
and trouble caused.
It said that a computer update meant a few customers
had problems which might have caused slow service.
But that no one would lose money because of it.
Aegon promised us that its customers' money is safe
and that its bosses are working to make things better
for customers.
After we contacted them, Aegon gave Gary back his £2300.
And Beyata got her pension money out. Both also
got something extra to say sorry.
Aegon, people trust you to look after their money.
So do not let them down when, after many years, they need
to get their money.
You really feel bad for them.
It is so annoying when you have money you cannot get.
Yes, Al.
And if you feel a pension company treated you badly,
or any company, let us know.
watchdog@bbc.co.uk, @BBCWatchdog on social media.
Another company we are hearing about again is Klarna,
the buy now, pay later service.
Last year, we told you how fake accounts
were being made using people's names.
At that time, Klarna told us it had
very good ways to stop fraud and protect users.
I guess those ways have not worked?
You got it, JB.
We have heard from some people who say fake Klarna accounts
were made in their name. Now they owe hundreds
of pounds.
Take Craig.
Al, tell us.
Craig got a letter from Klarna. It was a final warning
for a payment of £495. But he had not used
Klarna since 2023.
He checked his credit score and saw it was lower.
He called Klarna. They said someone had indeed made
an account using his name.
Sadly, Craig is not the only one.
JB, tell us about Carl.
He found out he had a Klarna account in his name
with a debt over £600, but he has never
used Klarna.
He told Klarna it could not have been him buying things
because he was in Canada with his family then.
Yes, and since then, a company that collects debts has called him.
This has caused him a lot of stress.
It is really annoying and causes a lot of worry.
I want to buy a house later this year.
The thought of something like this causing problems
is very bad.
That must be so stressful.
What did Klarna say about this?
Klarna says the bad guys must have already stolen
information to open these accounts. But it is very sorry for how
these problems were handled.
It says a better way to check who people are has been added.
Now customers will have to take a live photo of themselves and a photo
of their ID if fraud might be happening.
And what about Craig and Carl?
Klarna knows it did not act fast enough to fix the problems.
Since we got involved, both have now had their debts cleared
and any bad marks on their credit reports removed.
What a good result for Watchdog!
Thank you, studio!
Hopefully Klarna will fix any other similar problems just
as quickly without us needing to push them.
Let us know if they do not.
Now on Easter Monday, while most people were still
eating their Easter eggs, our email was full.
We got over 50 complaints after P&O Cruises cancelled
its Southampton to Zeebrugge cruise about 24 hours before it left.
Why?
The ship's repairs were delayed at the last minute.
People are not happy, as you can guess.
And when I say people, I mean Mary.
JB, tell us about Mary?
Mary planned to go on the cruise with her friends.
Her husband even took time off work to watch the dogs.
She says only one person in the group got
the email about the cancellation on Sunday.
When they called customer service on Monday, they said
the person on the phone did not know about it.
Yes, they thought it was a trick until P&O called them back hours
before the ship was supposed to board, saying it was cancelled.
Did they say why it was so late?
They offered money off another cruise, but many said, "No way."
There are also extra costs like insurance and parking and
time taken off work for dog care. What should people do then?
Make the cruise company fix it.
They took your money.
If the ship is not ready, they have to help you.
Only after that should you talk to your insurance, because
if you make a claim, your cost
might go up next time.
This made us worry about tomorrow, when The Aurora ship goes
to Norway for 12 nights.
P&O say she is ready to go,
ready for the fjords.
If you are going to Oslo on the Aurora, it is still good to check
before you leave home.
Send us a postcard of the Northern Lights!
Thanks, Matt.
Lots of good advice, like always.
Still coming tonight, famous actor Dame Imelda Staunton
will be here with her daughter, Bridgerton star Bessie Carter.
They will tell us about playing a mother and daughter
who do not agree.
But first, we are talking about a strong new drama out next
week called Suspect: The shooting of Jean Charles De Menezes.
It is set in London in 2005. It is about the things that
happened around the sad killing of a man who did nothing wrong at Stockwell tube
station after they thought he was a bad guy.
Before we talk to actors Max Beesley and Edison Alcaide -
who plays Jean Charles -
let's watch a clip.
July 7th, we have never seen anything like it.
The biggest attack since World War II. We should think
that the people who did this will try again. This needs strong
action. He has gone into the station. The man shot
yesterday was not linked to bad guys.
And joining us now are Max Beesley and Edison Alcaide!
This is such a strong drama.
We were both lucky to see it early. It really reminds you
how worried we all were back then. I remember
exactly where I was. The show starts after the first bombs
which killed 52 people, I think,
and hurt almost 800. So we start right in the middle of it
at the beginning of the show. But I remember on the day, we were practicing
for the show at nine o'clock. The boss said we should start at
8:30am. So we were all going in an hour earlier than planned.
We were all using the trains and buses. Then we heard
sirens and wondered what was happening. And of course, we
know now how sad it was. I think everyone remembers where they
were.
After the first bombs, there were more failed bomb attempts.
This led to a big search where Jean Charles de Menezes
was accidentally involved.
How did he get mixed up in this?
So many different reasons and so many mistakes. And also bad luck,
a mix of everything. But this was just a man
living in London. A man from Brazil living a normal life,
just trying to earn money. Just like everyone else. It is so sad
and the drama shows that really well.
The drama is told from different points of view.
Including Andy Hayman,
who was in charge of looking into the bombs.
You play him and got to meet him.
I asked the bosses on the show if I could talk to
him. Before I knew I got the job, I had read his book.
It was a great book. I read it a few times and started
to understand the man and what he was like working in the
police force. He was very successful and very
good at his job. He was one of the best. But actually
getting time with him was so helpful. You can get an idea of the
man. You try to understand someone's spirit. You are not trying
to copy people, but things like how they talk,
how they move, hand movements, and within the words of the script,
just getting that time with him was great. He was open with me. We
started talking easily for the first hour. Then we asked some
important questions, and he answered them fully. That was
so helpful.
You worked closely with the family of Jean Charles de Menezes. You are
both from Brazil. But besides that, you felt there were some real
ways you were alike. Yes. Jean Charles is
someone I could see myself in. I felt like I really understood
Jean Charles in many ways. It is very important to me, too,
because he is a Brazilian guy living in London, you know? This is
Edison's first big acting job with you, Max, and Daniel Mays and
Russell Tovey. You must be very proud of him. Yes, when you look at
this terrible sad event, we only have papers. We can look at the
words about Jean Charles and so on. But for a drama like this and
for Edison to play him like this, it was so real and so beautiful.
Actually, at the showing for the press at Bafta, I sat next to Laura.
We could hardly breathe. We were trying hard not to cry.
To make Jean Charles seem real and to show him as best as you can as
you did -- could not actually breathe. It is important to put that
drama in people's houses and give them different views and to
see a living version of Jean Charles shown by Edison so
beautifully. It is key to connect with people, if that makes sense. It
really was. It is a very important show, and done so well.
Well done on your acting. You can watch Suspect
on Disney+ from next Wednesday.
And information about groups offering help and support
In a moment, Dame Imelda Staunton and Bessie Carter will be
here to tell us about acting in their most personal role yet.
But now, we go to the Scottish Borders with artist
Adebanji Alade to visit one of the UK's most amazing places.
And joining him is someone you know whose art is as bright
This place looks amazing.
And I am not here just by luck.
This place was chosen by someone
whose funny ways
made lots of kids laugh for years.
Mallet's Mallett is a word game.
You must not stop. You must not wait.
Or you get hit on the head like this.
Or like this.
Timmy Mallett asked me to meet him here
at the bottom of the great Leaderfoot Viaduct
in the Scottish Borders. Because now he is more likely
to hold a paintbrush than his famous big foam mallet.
Here he comes. Oh, wow.
Adebanji!
Timmy! It is great to meet you.
Tell me, why are we here?
When I am not being funny with Mallett's mallet,
I am The Cycling Artist. And I ride my bike everywhere.
And I paint pictures everywhere I go.
Now I understand, because this place looks great.
We are setting up our stands so I can paint him
while he paints a picture of the view.
The south of Scotland is a secret beautiful place.
People often drive past quickly on their way to the Highlands. Really,
they are missing out because this place has so much to see.
This bridge was an old train line that ran for 80 years.
The last Indiana Jones movie was filmed here.
Wow.
It is a great place and it brings all kinds of people,
including great artists like Adebaji.
Jokes aside, Timmy's setup is quite strange.
Timmy, I have never seen a painting stand on a bike.
I wanted to find a way to paint on the bike.
So I figured out how to attach the stand to the bike.
I painted the bike myself with water paints.
It is part of who I am.
In 1984, Timmy joined the kids' TV show Wide Awake Club.
Later he hosted Wacaday, which was on until 1992.
What do you think of the shorts? Do you like them?
His face and sayings were known by a whole group of people.
Hit my head like this.
Or like this.
Really great.
But more recently, art has become his full-time job.
Timmy, have you always been an artist?
Oh, yes. Art has been very important in our family.
My dad was an artist. He would say, "Look closely."
Look closely at things. Let the light and dark parts
make the picture.
And my mum was always a great judge.
Oh!
"Mum, what do you think of my painting?"
She would say...
"Very nice, dear. I like the frame better."
In 2018, Timmy went on
a 2500-mile painting and biking trip around Europe.
It is a long way to Santiago!
His brother Martin gave him the idea.
Martin had Down's Syndrome.
He died just before Timmy left.
Martin was not stopped by his problems with talking and learning.
He was never held back by Down's Syndrome.
He would say, "You and me, I'm happy."
That means enjoy the moment right now.
It is easy to enjoy the moment on the bike.
Dear Martin shows me that,
give it a try,
try your best to do as much as you can.
See if you can. Every day.
Wonderful. What a great attitude.
And you know what, Adebanji? I'm finished.
All right, I will come and see yours first.
Oh, wow. I love it.
The difference in the light hitting these posts.
You have these dark shapes against the sky,
and then, boom, the light comes out.
Wonderful. Brilliant.
Thanks.
Brilliant.
Shall we look at yours?
OK. Right.
I know that guy.
Yeah.
There is some colour in this, right?
It shows what you do, how you do it, and what you use. Thank
you, that is really, really great. Thank you.
great. Thank you. Both paintings are so lovely. I used to love
watching Timmy Mallett.
Time to say hello to our next guests.
They are two actors who are also related.
It's Dame Imelda Staunton and her daughter Bessie Carter.
I am with famous actors, because you just won
your fifth Olivier Award! Amazing! How do you feel? Greedy! Still
greedy. It is very nice, yes. You will not get much more from
me on that. You two are now mother and daughter on stage
in Mrs Warren's Profession. It is set in
old times. When it was first written, it is about the difficult relationship
between them. Then a secret comes out
that changes things.
Yes, it is about a mother and daughter who have
been apart and have not known each other because of how things
were. We meet them over a few days when they have a kind
of argument that neither of them wants but
they must have. And to have a play written in 1893, about
the problems of women at work or at home or just in
life, that women again are not treated the same. George Bernard
Shaw strongly supported women. This play was banned because
they did not want to know. It was partly banned because of the name.
A woman having a title was not allowed. Not cool then.
Now, you act with your mum, Bessie. This is your first time
acting with her. How does it feel? Terrible, awful! We are both
having a terrible time!
It is really great. It is a real treat. We are
having a lovely time. It feels strangely normal to us.
We are just two actors in a room trying to tell a story.
So it is a real treat. And the packed lunches are really good. That
is all we talk about! You have the hard-boiled eggs for the 11 o'clock
break, and then we compare food. Living the dream! And your dad is an
actor. You have directed him before. Is it good working with family,
or not so much? When you get to that place where you are on the
floor, working together, the relationship, the father and son
with my father, you trust each other. I will give him a suggestion, and
he would say OK and get up and do it. But it was a great thing for him
to let me direct. It is a great short film, and he is wonderful in it. I
am really glad I did that. I have something real
with my father that I can look at and show his
grandchildren later on. It was a great experience. Really
special, isn't it? And you said you had not acted together
before, but then we found this photo. We wondered what was
going on. This was a performance of Mamma Mia!!. It was last week!
Started young.
Talking family, Edison, what did your family say when you wanted to become an actor? My
parents always supported me but were careful.
They told me, OK, good, have a Plan B, C, and D, and get a
degree. Did you? I did. I studied here in the UK, at
university, but I studied film making. It was a way to please my parents
but also still be involved somehow in
film. They must be proud now, though. I understand that.
And lots of talk going around about the celebrity Traitors show.
Celia Imrie might be one of them. Will she
make a good Traitor? She is an actress. I bet she will make a
great Traitor. I cannot think of anyone better. We watch Traitors and
it is very funny. I think she would be a great addition to that
house.
Mrs Warren's Profession opens on May 22nd at the Garrick
Theatre in London and runs until August 16th.
August 16th. -- Mrs Warren's Profession. This would surely
make the cast nervous!
A big thank you to all our guests
and to Matthew Bostock.
That is all the time we have tonight.
I will be back tomorrow with Roman. We will be joined
by the stars of Thunderbolts, Florence Pugh and
Julia Louis-Dreyfus, and Jeremy Vine.
Plus, KSI gives out a special One Big Thank You.